Release Notes v4.4 (#1859)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v4.4.md

---
description: Ibexa DXP v4.4 adds the improvements to the Welcome Page, PIM and Fastly.
---

# Ibexa DXP v4.4

**Version number**: v4.4

**Release date**: January 27, 2023

**Release type**: [Fast Track](https://support.ibexa.co/Public/service-life)

## Notable changes

### New welcome page

You will be welcomed to the Ibexa Digital Experience Platform by a newly designed welcome page.

![New Welcome Page](4.4_welcome_page.png)

### All-new Ibexa Commerce packages [[% include 'snippets/commerce_badge.md' %]]

This release deprecates all Commerce packages that you've known from previous releases 

> and brings a completely redesigned and reconstructed Commerce offering.

Reviewer: I will be careful with this "completely" because the Commerce offering is not fully revamped yet :) We continue in the next releases.

> and brings a completely redesigned and reconstructed Commerce offering.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and brings a redesigned and reconstructed Commerce offering.
```

As part of this effort, two all-new components have been created: Cart and Checkout, 
that you can use to build your own e-commerce presence. 

> Another addition is the Storefront component that serves as a proof-of-concept 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

![The new cart view](img/4.4_new_cart.png "The new cart view")

Another addition is the Storefront component that provides a set of basic components 
```

> and a basis for your customization and extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and adds a basis for your customization and extension.
```

> ![The new cart view](img/4.4_new_cart.png "The new cart view")

Reviewer 3: What about the new checkout?

Reviewer 2: We will add another screenshot in no time.

> ![The new cart view](img/4.4_new_cart.png "The new cart view")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![The new checkout](img/4.4_new_checkout.png "The new checkout")
```

For more information, see [Commerce](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.4/commerce/commerce/).

### Fastly Image Optimizer (Fastly IO)

You can now use Fastly IO to serve optimized versions of your images in real time and cache them.
Fastly can perform multiple transformations on your image,
for example, cropping, resizing and trimming before serving it to end user.
Fastly is an external service that requires a separate subscription,
to learn more see, [Fastly Image Optimizer website](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/about-fastly-image-optimizer).

> If you already have Fastly IO subscription, you can move to Fastly IO configuration in Ibexa DXP.

Reviewer 3: Should we link to the configuration of this module in Ibexa DXP?

Author: Yes we will, it was just merged to master, so links will be added before final release.

#### Fastly VCL upload

With this release, you can manipulate your Fastly VCL configuration directly from the command line.
For example, you can define formats or source path for images.

### New page blocks [[% include 'snippets/experience_badge.md' %]] [[% include 'snippets/commerce_badge.md' %]]

This release introduces new page blocks that rely on Personalization and PIM features 
to let editors visually organize products on a page: 

- [Catalog block](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#catalog-block) displays products from a specific catalog to a selected customer group.
- [Last purchased](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#last-purchased-block) displays a list of products that were recently purchased, either generally, or by a specific user.
- [Last viewed](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#last-viewed-block) displays a list of products that were recently viewed.

> - [Product collection](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#product-collection-block) displays a collection of specifically selected products.

Reviewer: We forgot about one Product block: "Recently added" (based on Perso)

Reviewer: When it comes to Page builder maybe we should also mention about new segmentation view (visibility tab) https://github.com/ibexa/segmentation/pull/69

Author: "Recently added" is described in API improvements https://github.com/ezsystems/developer-documentation/pull/1859/files#diff-c73e5a40002dde6ec8dc2d7eeacc7b9c345e0620c19f5da476d6f3262f004a9cR110

Reviewer: @MagdalenaZuba but this is a new block available on UI (1 of 5):
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104639617/215710781-69b71f13-765f-4c6b-adf9-c2c0f1dbb982.png)
Please mention it here.

Author: Will do 👍

## Ibexa Connect

You can now take advantage of [Ibexa Connect](https://www.ibexa.co/products/ibexa-connect),
an iPaaS (integration platform-as-a-service) which allows you to connect Ibexa DXP with different third-party applications.
Ibexa Connect features a low-code drag-and-drop interface and hundreds of connectors to different services
that help you automate business processes.

See [Ibexa Connect documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/connect/en/latest/).

![Example of an Ibexa Connect scenario](4.4_connect_scenario_example.png)

## Other changes

### Flysystem v2

We have made significant upgrades to the codebase to rely on Flysystem v2.
Our Flysystem Adapter implementation now supports dynamic paths
described by complex settings resolvable for the SiteAccess context.
For more information, see [Configuring the DFS IO handler](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.4/infrastructure_and_maintenance/clustering/clustering/#configuring-the-dfs-io-handler).

If your custom project relies directly on a Flysystem features instead of using our IO abstraction,
it will require an upgrade as well,
using [these instructions](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/upgrade-from-1.x/).

> ### Dedicated migration type for companies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Dedicated migration type for Corporate Accounts
```

> To simplify data migration, you can now create a company with underling objects such as members group and address book.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To simplify data migration, you can now create a corporate account with underling objects such as members group and address book.
```

You can also extract those objects as references. 
For more information on data migration actions, see [documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.4/content_management/data_migration/data_migration_actions/#data-migration-actions).

### API improvements

### Item age in Recently added model

Now, in a Recently added model (previously Random model), you can manually [set the age of items](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/personalization/recommendation_models/#recently-added) which are displayed in recommendations.

> ### Deprecations

Reviewer: We also removed old/irrelevant v3 commerce blocks (e.g. bestsellers, product slider?) from Page builder.

Reviewer 3: Very good point

Author: We were waiting for Adam's input with those packages as part of Commerce clean-up ticket. They are now added.

![Example of an Ibexa Connect scenario](4.4_connect_scenario_example.png)

## Other changes

### Flysystem v2

We have made significant upgrades to the codebase to rely on Flysystem v2.
Our Flysystem Adapter implementation now supports dynamic paths
described by complex settings resolvable for the SiteAccess context.
For more information, see [Configuring the DFS IO handler](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.4/infrastructure_and_maintenance/clustering/clustering/#configuring-the-dfs-io-handler).

If your custom project relies directly on a Flysystem features instead of using our IO abstraction,
it will require an upgrade as well,
using [these instructions](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/upgrade-from-1.x/).

### Dedicated migration type for companies

To simplify data migration, you can now create a company with underling objects such as members group and address book.
You can also extract those objects as references. 
For more information on data migration actions, see [documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.4/content_management/data_migration/data_migration_actions/#data-migration-actions).

### API improvements

> ### Item age in random model

Reviewer 4: Should in title be previous random or new recently model name?

Author: We will change it to new name, thanks for checking

---
description: Ibexa DXP v4.4 adds the improvements to the Welcome Page, All-new Ibexa Commerce packages and Fastly.
---

# Ibexa DXP v4.4

**Version number**: v4.4

**Release date**: January 31, 2023

**Release type**: [Fast Track](https://support.ibexa.co/Public/service-life)

## Notable changes

### New welcome page

You will be welcomed to the Ibexa Digital Experience Platform by a newly designed welcome page.

![New Welcome Page](4.4_welcome_page.png)

### All-new Ibexa Commerce packages [[% include 'snippets/commerce_badge.md' %]]

This release deprecates all Commerce packages that you've known from previous releases 
and brings a redesigned and reconstructed Commerce offering.

As part of this effort, two all-new components have been created: Cart and Checkout, 
that you can use to build your own e-commerce presence. 

![The new cart view](img/4.4_new_cart.png "The new cart view")

> Another addition is the Storefront component that provides a set of basic components 

Reviewer: @dabrt we repeat here the word "component", maybe we can just say "Another addition is the Storefront that provides a set of basic components.."

---
description: Ibexa DXP v4.4 adds the improvements to the Welcome Page, All-new Ibexa Commerce packages and Fastly.
---

# Ibexa DXP v4.4

**Version number**: v4.4

> **Release date**: January 31, 2023

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Release date**: February 2, 2023
```

**Release type**: [Fast Track](https://support.ibexa.co/Public/service-life)

## Notable changes

### New welcome page

> You will be welcomed to the Ibexa Digital Experience Platform by a newly designed welcome page.

Reviewer 5: Maybe:

```suggestion
A new welcome page greets you when opening Ibexa Digital Experience Platform.
```

This release introduces new page blocks that rely on Personalization and PIM features 
to let editors visually organize products on a page: 

- [Catalog block](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#catalog-block) displays products from a specific catalog to a selected customer group.
- [Last purchased](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#last-purchased-block) displays a list of products that were recently purchased, either generally, or by a specific user.
- [Last viewed](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#last-viewed-block) displays a list of products that were recently viewed.
- [Product collection](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#product-collection-block) displays a collection of specifically selected products.
- [Recently added](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/content_management/block_reference/#recently-added-block) displays a list of products that were recently added to PIM.

### Personalization improvements

#### Automated way of creating Personalization service account

> The Personalization service has been enhanced to speed up the process of creating new customer account.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Personalization service has been enhanced to speed up the process of creating a new customer account.
```

> Now, what you have to do to create an account in the new, automated way, is to fill out the form, select an account type, and send request to the Personalization endpoint.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now, to create an account in the new, automated way, you have to fill out the form, select an account type, and send a request to the Personalization endpoint.
```

#### New models in Personalization engine

Personalization engine introduces two new recommendation models: [predictive](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/personalization/recommendation_models/#predictive) and [recurring purchase](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/personalization/recommendation_models/#recurring-purchase). These two new models, based on mathematical approach, help to predict clients behavior and
provide the best recommendations.

## Ibexa Connect

You can now take advantage of [Ibexa Connect](https://www.ibexa.co/products/ibexa-connect),
an iPaaS (integration platform-as-a-service) which allows you to connect Ibexa DXP with different third-party applications.
Ibexa Connect features a low-code drag-and-drop interface and hundreds of connectors to different services
that help you automate business processes.

See [Ibexa Connect documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/connect/en/latest/).

![Example of an Ibexa Connect scenario](4.4_connect_scenario_example.png)

## Other changes

### Flysystem v2

> We have made significant upgrades to the codebase to rely on Flysystem v2.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The codebase has undergone significant upgrades to rely on Flysystem v2.
```

> Our Flysystem Adapter implementation now supports dynamic paths

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Flysystem Adapter implementation now supports dynamic paths
```

described by complex settings resolvable for the SiteAccess context.
For more information, see [Configuring the DFS IO handler](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.4/infrastructure_and_maintenance/clustering/clustering/#configuring-the-dfs-io-handler).

If your custom project relies directly on a Flysystem features instead of using our IO abstraction,
it will require an upgrade as well,
using [these instructions](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/upgrade-from-1.x/).

### Dedicated migration type for Corporate Accounts

> To simplify data migration, you can now create a corporate account with underling objects such as members group and address book.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To simplify data migration, you can now create a corporate account with underlying objects such as members group and address book.
```

You can also extract those objects as references. 

> For more information on data migration actions, see [documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.4/content_management/data_migration/data_migration_actions/#data-migration-actions).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information on data migration actions, see [Data migration actions](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.4/content_management/data_migration/data_migration_actions/#data-migration-actions).
```

### API improvements

### Item age in Recently added model

> Now, in a Recently added model (previously Random model), you can manually [set the age of items](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/personalization/recommendation_models/#recently-added) which are displayed in recommendations.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In a Recently added model (previously Random model), you can now manually [set the age of items](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/4.4/personalization/recommendation_models/#recently-added) which are displayed in recommendations.
```

### Deprecations

### Commerce packages

> All Commerce packages as of this release are deprecated:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following Commerce packages are deprecated as of this release:
```

- `ibexa/commerce-admin-ui`
- `ibexa/commerce-erp-admin`
- `ibexa/commerce-order-history`
- `ibexa/commerce-page-builder`
- `ibexa/commerce-rest`
- `ibexa/commerce-transaction`
- `ibexa/commerce-base-design`
- `ibexa/commerce-checkout`
- `ibexa/commerce-fieldtypes`
- `ibexa/commerce-price-engine`
- `ibexa/commerce-shop`
- `ibexa/commerce-shop-ui`

> They will be maintained by Ibexa with fixes including security fixes, but they won't be further developed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
They will be maintained by Ibexa with fixes, including security fixes, but they won't be further developed.
```

Old packages are replaced by [the all-new Ibexa Commerce packages](#all-new-ibexa-commerce-packages--include-snippetscommerce_badgemd-) with more
to come in the upcoming releases.

### Flysystem

- Support for overwriting existing files has been dropped (catch block of `\Ibexa\Core\IO\IOBinarydataHandler\Flysystem::create` and test). The new native Flysystem v2 Local Adapter performs this out of the box.
- Support for no last modified timestamp has been dropped (in the form of a test case). The new Flysystem v2 throws `UnableToRetrieveMetadata` exception in such case.

## Full changelog

| Ibexa Content          | Ibexa Experience          | Ibexa Commerce          |
|------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|

> | [Ibexa Content v4.4]() | [Ibexa Experience v4.4]() | [Ibexa Commerce v4.4]() |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| [Ibexa Content v4.4](https://github.com/ibexa/content/releases/tag/v4.4.0) | [Ibexa Experience v4.4](https://github.com/ibexa/experience/releases/tag/v4.4.0) | [Ibexa Commerce v4.4](https://github.com/ibexa/commerce/releases/tag/v4.4.0) |
```

#### Fastly VCL upload

With this release, you can manipulate your Fastly VCL configuration directly from the command line.
For example, you can define formats or source path for images.

### New page blocks

This release introduces new page blocks that rely on Personalization and PIM features 
to let editors visually organize products on a page: 

- [Catalog block](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/content_management/block_reference/#catalog-block) displays products from a specific catalog to a selected customer group.
- [Last purchased](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/content_management/block_reference/#last-purchased-block) displays a list of products that were recently purchased, either generally, or by a specific user.
- [Last viewed](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/master/content_management/block_reference/#last-viewed-block) displays a list of products that were recently viewed.
- [Product collection](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/master/content_management/block_reference/#product-collection-block) displays a collection of specifically selected products.

### Automated way of creating Personalization service account

> The Personalization service has been enhanced to speed up the process of creating new customer account. Now,  what you have to do to create an account in the new, automated way, is to fill out the form, select an account type, and send request to the Personalization endpoint.  In a few moments you receive the credentials.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The Personalization service has been enhanced to speed up the process of creating new customer account. Now, what you have to do to create an account in the new, automated way, is to fill out the form, select an account type, and send request to the Personalization endpoint. In a few moments you receive the credentials.
```

![Example of an Ibexa Connect scenario](4.4_connect_scenario_example.png)

## Other changes

### Flysystem v2
We have made significant upgrades to the codebase to rely on Flysystem v2.
Our Flysystem Adapter implementation now supports dynamic paths
described by complex settings resolvable for the SiteAccess context.
For more information, see [Configuring the DFS IO handler](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/infrastructure_and_maintenance/clustering/clustering/#configuring-the-dfs-io-handler).

If your custom project relies directly on a Flysystem features instead of using our IO abstraction,
it will require an upgrade as well, 
using [these instructions](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/upgrade-from-1.x/).

### Dedicated migration type for companies

To simplify data migration, you can now create a company with underling objects such as members group and address book.
You can also extract those objects as references. 
For more information on data migration actions, see [documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/content_management/data_migration/data_migration_actions/#data-migration-actions).

### API improvements

### Item age in random model

> Now, in a Recently added model (previously Random model), you can manually set the age of items which are displayed in recommendations.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Now, in a Recently added model (previously Random model), you can manually set the age of items which are displayed in recommendations.

```

### Deprecations

- Support for overwriting existing files has been dropped (catch block of `\Ibexa\Core\IO\IOBinarydataHandler\Flysystem::create` and test). The new native Flysystem v2 Local Adapter performs this out of the box.

> - Support for no last modified timestamp has been dropped (in the form of a test case). The new Flysystem v2 throws `UnableToRetrieveMetadata` exception in such case.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Support for no last modified timestamp has been dropped (in the form of a test case). The new Flysystem v2 throws `UnableToRetrieveMetadata` exception in such case.

```
